My reading list at Amherst, because this has to do with a lot of the recent anthologies.
So the young man stood up.
So the young man stood up after this young man had given this brilliant straight-out-of-the-book thing about the pathology, you know, of these Latinos and black people and how there was no real
organization, you know, that they didn't have that.
And so he gets up, one of them gets up and talks about the black church.
It's a wonderful example.
And he talks about it in relationship to what had happened in the civil rights time and so forth and so on.
Well, I'm not going to continue, but I decided, yes, I would like to come, and I thought it would be very interesting also to talk in an all-male college, but I wanted to go because it was Emily Dickinson's Amherst.
That's her hometown.
Right down the street.
And I'd already been there twice with Theodore Ward, who I'd mentioned earlier.
who had carte blanche at the house next door in the Emily Dickinson house, too, because of who she was.
But so I had my first academic experience.
Well, this was 69, 70.
There was a lot of, in my, I had four young men from SDS, Students for a Democratic Society.
They were very excited about my class, because it had this fascinating name, which I had not given it, but Leo Marx, who taught there and was kind of the guy who'd been most instrumental in inviting me as the writer.
And I'd said I would come if I could teach another class, and it would be a class in literature.
And I was called suddenly to give a title.
I couldn't think of a title, so Leo said, well, describe it, what you're going to teach.
So I said, well, it's going to be literature about poverty.
Well, it's going to be literature about the human struggle for freedom.
Well, anyhow...
As this was a time of when with so many of the college kids, unlike so many of the working class kids, they were not going to be going anyway.
They were very much against the war.
It was when poor David Eisenhower was there and Julie Nixon, and over the frat house,
appeared this huge—the front house where he was, it was right on the corner across from the campus, impeach Nixon must have been hell for those two young people.
I really felt for them then, you know.
I've met him.
I did interview with him.
Well, I never had anything.
I mean, he didn't enroll in my class, and she didn't come over from—or Smith, I guess she was Smith.
I think it was Smith.
It doesn't sound quite right to me, but anyhow.
She wouldn't, she doesn't seem like a Smith girl, actually, does she?
No, no, she doesn't.
I don't think it was Smith.
Vassar.
Vassar sounds more like it.
No, Vassar isn't there.
Vassar is upstate New York.
Well.
No.
Anyhow, well, it'll come to us soon.
Mount Holyoke, perhaps?
Mount Holyoke, perhaps.
Mount Holyoke, Smith.
And there was one other women's college there.
Well, Wellesley is the other way.
Oh, yes.
Uh-huh.
Well, I don't think they would have sent her to Wellesley.
That would have been a little too.
Well, that's right.
And the wrong surroundings.
Well, I decided that the first part of my class was going to be around war.
And I taught, for instance, Nicholas Stick, which is this wonderful—the young—he was middle-aged then—Tolstoy, who'd served in that terrible czarist army, but as an officer, you know, had encountered this man who was a hundred years old and had—
survived not only a war, I think, was it against Turkey, whatever Turkey was called then or something, but anyhow, but at the time, well, at the time when one out of every four would be beaten to death in the gauntlet that they had.
It was a time of terrible cruelty, and so he wrote about that.
Then I had three other things that I was also teaching that had never been taught before at Amherst.
And I think the only thing I taught all that semester, because I also wanted to teach—oh, I had work in my title, too.
And, of course, Germinal, I guess they were teaching.
They would teach that from time to time, but it also gave me a chance to.
To contrast being female and male, which was something else I was about in that class, and that is when the daughter, who also works in the mines, has to get up like her mother earlier than the guys, and in addition to not getting a chance to sit down and eat anything, has to pack the lunches as well.
You know, it's just one of those kinds of things.
But I won't go on about the class, but it was quite a reading list.
And as I said, it was not the kind of thing that was being taught.
And I don't want to get started talking.
It was pretty courageous of Amherst to invite you to do this class.
They never expected me that I was going to teach a class like that.
I was going to be freaky.
They expected me to throw great parties like the other writers in residence did, have an affair or two that they could gossip about, you know, that would add a little spice to it all because this was the usual record I gathered as I learned.
And instead, because it was that year, not only was I a female, I was getting up at faculty meetings.
I was going to faculty meetings and I was speaking.
about what was going on, and when they wanted to expel the black students who took over the library, I got up and I spoke about it.
And anyhow, I wasn't trying to be outrageous or anything, but I just had not been briefed about how you were supposed to behave, and it was also a very special year.
Anyhow, I began to be asked for my reading list.
And also what I hadn't taught that I had put as if they wanted to do more reading.
By the way, I did teach Agnes Smedley's Daughter of Earth.
Do you have that reading list still?
What?
Oh, yes.
And I'll send you a copy.
Yes.
You'll remember?
Uh-huh.
And anyhow, Paul Lauder, who at that time was with Florence Howe,
As more and more, I mean, 1971, when I spoke the second talk in silence as women who were writers in our century, I was asked for a reading list, because all these, I said, the academics, they'd had good teaching, but they didn't know this other literature.
And I taught wonderful, by the way, speaking of writers who were educated in the library,
There was wonderful Carlos Bulacan.
I just mentioned something about the Philippines that I read in our library here, where I ran across El Ultima Adios, which was Jose Rizal's valedictory that is quoted in, Hey, Sailor, What Ship?
Although I heard that also from a Filipino seaman, but he didn't know it all by heart.
And then I looked it up in the library in a ragged book that was unquestionably destroyed because it wasn't there in this sudden period when I first heard that they were destroying books right and left.
You've got to get to that pretty soon.
Yes, I know.
Anyhow, it was the first, and it was the major forum that they had.
It was nothing else was happening that morning, and it was on women's literature.
This again is still at Amherst?
No, no, no.
This was the Modern Language Association.
Oh, this is the MLA.
The MLA.
Wow.
So I'm mentioning all of these, you know, writers and talking about things.
Well, I had no idea I was,
saying what had not been said, because I didn't read criticism, academic books, and so forth and so on.
So I stayed up all night with all this group that was nearly all women, with half a dozen guys, making up a reading list for them.
Do you remember when this was?
1971, December 1971.
So two years after Amherst.
Actually, the year after Amherst.
It was the year after Amherst, and Elaine Hedges had thought to ask me because she'd heard a little bit about Amherst from Florence Howe.
Who's Elaine Hedges?
Elaine Hedges, who I just lost.
This last year has been terrible on very unexpected death, plus some very beloved...
terminal illnesses that at least you know about and have that strange kind of preparation and happiness when they no longer have that suffering.
I'm sorry, I interrupted, but Elaine Hedges had advice.
Well, Elaine Hedges is this professor at Tosin State.
She was a graduate, I don't know, I think Barnard, and then she went to Harvard where she did her graduate work.
And she was in charge of this panel, and she's the one who asked me to speak, and we became very close friends in the years since.
And so I gave that, what in effect was that second talk, though that was edited, because I never have written a talk.
It was all notes.
Furthermore, somebody jogged my elbow walking up the aisle on these three-by-six cars, and it went all over, and I had to do without them.
And I didn't know about time.
I learned about time.
There was a panel, and she had to shut me up, which I took in good grace.
So did I learn.
I mean, you know, there are things you should tell people ahead of time.
Where was this, in New York?
No, it was held in Chicago that year.
It was held in Chicago that year.
And so then I began to publish reading lists in the Women's Studies newsletter.
But this was... Mostly fiction?
No, no.
No, no, no.
It was fiction and nonfiction.
And I had journals, and I had some poetry, too, occasionally.
And I never finished the list.
I mean, it ran for about three or four issues.
I was going to do one on aging, you know, both youth and aging, the things that are college age or adolescent plus aging in the same list and so forth and so on.
And so that got quite a circulation.
And then, of course, people began reading on their own because they needed to teach, and it began the period where you went ahead and in the beginning you mimeographed, and then you had photocopying, and then came Xeroxing, and you were able to make up your own, what suited your students.
And all this teaching of newer writers that had not been part of what was generally taught
took place first in the community and state colleges, the public colleges.
They were last of all in the elite colleges.
Well, naturally, you think about it, you know, why would they suddenly take on a writer who they had never had themselves, who was not part of the canon?
Do you have any thoughts on the canon debate, this whole debate that's going on, the great books debate, the Western canon, Harold Bloom?
Well, I believe it's all your heritage.
I believe it's like W.E.B.D.
did in his Preface to Souls of Black Folk.
Why would he quote an Irish, and like a lot of Irish writers,
Why would he quote just a beautiful passage from Patrick Pierce?
If you look at the souls of black folk and see, and then he'd have a phrase or two, say, from what he called the sorrow songs, you know, from his own people.
It's all your human heritage.
I believe absolutely that you should have what is the acknowledged great
And you should also have a taste, and more than a taste, of those newer writers.
Think of the blossoming of literature we've had in our country, the Nobel Prize winners, two of them, who came from people who a generation or two generations before were not readers.
We're not readers.
I mean, that's the thing.
We had a period after World War II between the
GI Bill and the sudden building all over this country.
My God, I go back to where Agnes Smedley went to Arizona State Teachers Colleges, and there's a university there that has 25,000 students.
I go to Youngstone, Ohio, where I just was, that was a steel town.
and had nothing.
And then I learned about other places, like, for instance, St.
Joseph, Missouri.
Somebody was at this wonderful Youngstown conference that I was at.
And I learned that when the industries died out, when the chimneys no longer passed out smoke, a new industry arose, colleges.
It was a certain period when we were establishing colleges.
You go to Youngstown, it's so marvelous, that university there.
Really?
You know, and they produce readers.
It was so exciting, the class that I went to, and not only readers, but I go to this where there's a home that's for older people, most of whom are the widows and a few of the guys who are still alive who also worked in those mills.
Well, the students themselves, along with the faculty, they have book clubs there.
Okay.
And this is in Youngstown?
In Youngstown.
What's the name of the school, Youngstown?
Youngstown State University.
Oh, okay.
You know, and then this wonderful guy, John Gilgan, who writes so beautifully, tells me about St.
Joe.
Missouri, where I went to try to organize slaughterhouses back in 1931 and what's happening there.
And that's the industry and the love with which those who are the first generation to come to literature themselves to teach their students who come.
And that's where a lot of this literature
that was not in the canon has enormous value.
You know, you do not only teach, say, I just mentioned it, Germinal.
You know, you have a choice.
You can teach and show the movie, for that matter of fact, of how green was my valley.
Well, for instance, you know, you have, now I can't think of the name, oh, it's
Well, it's set in the minds.
Anyhow, and they bring in music, some of which is now in some of the anthologies, like the Heath anthology, I think, as Aunt Molly Jackson, who wrote, you know, she was a poet who was illiterate, and she wrote music.
I mean, look at all, look at,
Look at what was sung by slaves.
And again, Thomas Wentworth Higginson, who you scorned?
I scorned him.
Well, he wrote the first piece when he heard the ex-slaves or those even who'd grown up in the North who fought in the Civil War.
When he heard them sing and the words in those songs, he wrote a whole piece in the...
You should read his notes of a black regiment.
I think it's .
.
No, not that one.
Not that one.
There was a black regiment, finally, you know, although it had a white commander besides that one.
And anyhow, the .
.
and it's like in my .
oh, yes, when I was paying tribute.
to what suddenly was called Ebonics or something, a certain use of language, marvelous use of oral language.
That's what this piece is partly about that was written, you know, for this around the original, yes, which I wrote all of us when I had that time, and it wasn't that much time because I had a family and a lot of things going on, but what I wrote was the
in that free time that Stanford gave me where I didn't work on a job.
So just briefly on this canon matter.
Yeah, I know.
You mentioned Scott Turow.
He told me of an instance at Amherst where Amherst had graduated summa cum laude, an English major who had never taken a course in Shakespeare.
What's... Well, that to me, Shakespeare is part of your...
Heritage.
You see, I'm against the dumbing down, but the real dumbing down doesn't happen there.
And I'd like to have a lot of this passion around the true denial of literature to youngsters.
The fact that public schools are so terrible.
Listen, if you read Mayanandio,
I have to find that piece for you.
I was starting to go through this box.
You're doing very well, but I hope you're not getting tired, by the way.
No, no, no, no, no.
But you see, Anna in there says to her kids, that's what books is.
Places you've never been.
Inside people's heads.
Who says this?
The Mother in Yanandio that I wrote when I was very young.
I wrote that in my early 20s.
That's what books is.
Well, let's see if I can't find that.
I was just beginning to dig into this thing.
I'll find it.
This is published, right?
Yes, I know, but I quoted from it as something having to do about libraries.
um uh by the way i'm sure you have a copy of that yes and actually i don't have a copy of it you don't have a copy of it well i have a better copy well of that but anyhow no i wrote it down i saw teacher last night i see well here's a better one you see well i made whole selections to send out to influential people at the time when we were being trashed in newspaper editorials and op-ed pieces
We who were objecting to this magnificent new Maine, what was the matter with us?
I mean, the whole town... Sure, you can have it.
I probably have a number of copies of it.
Okay, but I interrupted.
I apologize.
I was, well, about the... This new Maine, we were objecting to this new Maine.
Well, we were criticizing the building...
We were criticizing the fact there weren't enough books on the shelves.
We were wondering where the books were.
It was very thin.
We were asking questions about where the money had gone.
We still don't really know.
I mean, you know why they just have, there's still none of, there's been no breakdown as who was getting what kind of salaries.
Wonderful PR was done, as you know.
There was such excitement.
I was excited.
I was not one of the writers who trooped through earlier.
There were pictures for weeks in advance, you know, and I didn't go to the opening.
I wanted to really be able to see and not have to be so packed with people that I couldn't really browse around.
So you were excited?
Oh, of course I was excited.
I was thrilled.
I was absolutely thrilled.
We passed that bond measure for the library.
78 percent of the people voted for it.
That's amazing.
Yes.
Unbelievable.
Well, we did a job.
The Friends of the Public Library have never gotten the credit that they should have.
Dowland was one of the people.
That didn't matter.
What mattered was the Library Foundation.
Well, you know, part of what, you know, it was a big society thing.
You know, and a wonderful job that was done in neighborhoods with support.
See, we're getting around to the library now.
What they did was to give people from the neighborhood, well, by the way, among other things, if you gave a dollar, you could have a little thing put up on a book.
That was part of what violated me, not the dollar thing.
It was, for instance, I had mentioned working in slaughterhouses.
To have the heir of Hormel, and I'd been the Hill professor at the University of Minnesota at the time of a huge strike there that had lasted a year and three quarters already.
And he had, it was just like back in the late 30s and 40s,
He had armed people and so forth and so on.
This was the father of the heir.
And here, if you give a million dollars, you get a room named after you.
Well, I'm against that kind of thing.
And to see on every single thing people's
people's names if you gave so much then you got a plaque you know it could be done discreetly you could have people who gave a lot of money have their names engraved downstairs in a whole list you know and have it hanging there and it's unobtrusive but if you want to know who gave a lot of money their their names why would why would why would be there but instead it was there was not a single bookshelf that didn't you know use that
as a money-raising thing, but to get back to the neighborhoods.
So here you were, and you were invited to these affairs where you might get your picture taken along with society people, and the papers published it, you know.
And I didn't object to that at the time at all.
You know, I wasn't paying, you know, but it was part of the nice PR about a people's library.
Though I did note very bitterly that never before had there been any attention to or support for the public library.
Well, then comes, I see I have the right thing in front of me, looking for my own piece that I wrote.
for the Friends of the Public Library thing, where I was going to be giving a talk and doing a reading.
So I read this.
I read it on the bus over to Marin County, where I was going to a family birthday.
Now, supposedly the people who use the library should be the ones to direct its internal design.
Well, if you don't have this, by all means, you must have it.
I have it.
I think it's coming in.
Okay, well, all right.
But you see, even looking at this, I was totally unprepared for the whole thing.
So what did you think when you saw that?
When you saw this, what did you think?
I felt, what a waste of space, plus the fact, how are you going to have quiet?
You know, one of the things that distinguished a library was you went in...
And people could talk, but you were quiet.
You had a quiet.
Quiet has to do with concentration.
That was part of my horror.
This was before I even started walking around.
Well, I'm... The acoustics are wonderful in here.
It could be a concert hall.
You can hear things dropping.
You can hear...
The sound.
You have chamber music.
And I was horrified when I walked into the music room where you're supposed to have quiet.
And you can have earmuffs on if you listen to certain things, but it's right where the constant elevator is so thoughtless.
And then, of course, walking around.
And I walk well, but I thought, my God, why do they do this to people who may have a problem?
Mm-hmm.
you know, who aren't in a wheelchair, but who are many people my age, you know, they don't go up and down stairs easily.
I live upstairs, you know, and I'm a walker and so forth and so on, and I do stretches.
But I was still very, very excited, you know, before I went.
And I read this, the library of the future, a high-tech palace of democracy, the architects, you know, and so forth and so on, and anyhow,
But Temco does have one demur that I marked at the time.
Even so, the books make a formidable visual impression, so that in some ways the new main library seems as friendly as the old branch library.
I think that that was the last time that the papers for months published anything
that was at all critical of the new Maine.
And I was totally unaware of it.
And I am interviewed for what is to be a TV special of three of us white-haired artifacts who were users of the library from way back.
Dorothy Bryant, Jade Snow Wong, and me for Channel 9.
It was also a show nationally special.
Well, Spencer Michael asked me.
I'm very tactful, actually.
And, you know, he expects me.
First of all, it was my first encounter with the fact you're supposed to trash the horrors of the old Maine.
Well, I had not been to any Library Commission meetings yet.
The Old Main that I loved so and learned so much from, and my kids, well, I have to find you that particular piece that I wrote for the Friends of the Library before the Old Main had opened, that is
the only published tribute to what is now called the Old Main, which it is, that says over it, May this structure throned on imperishable book
be cherished from generation to generation for the delight and improvement of humankind that's what's inscribed on the you can go and look when you go to the well you'll have to have a panoramic camera because it goes all the way across and you see the heads it's true they're all men but so what i'm not going to object to that at the period that that library was set up it is
What W.E.V.
Du Bois cherished in his soul as a black folk, part of our greatest human heritage.
It's those great thinkers and writers.
Let the tape recorder, for the record, know that you recited that from memory.
You didn't read that inscription from anything.
You just happened to know that.
No, I remember when I first came to San Francisco, and I loved...
The old, I love the Omaha Public Library.
But let me tell you, when I saw that, I got tears in my eyes.
I thought, isn't that beautiful?
You mean the first time in 1930 when you came here?
That's right.
In this so trashed building.
the so-trashed building that meant so much to me and my kids and where I could be up reading and my kids were safe in that wonderful children's room.
And I so wish Effie Lee were back from Europe so that you could talk to her.
What a children's library.
What an atmosphere she had there.
It really belonged to the kids.
And the kids, they learned somehow...
Not to make a lot of noise, but they felt so at home in that place.
The size of everything, the way the bookshelves were so low, the kind of pictures that were around, the fact that you always had crayons and paper and colored pencils and could write down things if you wanted and were encouraged to make notes, and Effie Lee would give kids sometimes
notebooks if she, and pencils if she thought they did not.
It was a library.
Is this a library?
Well, yes.
It has books in it, and it has something else that's very necessary.
It has computers, but it is primarily a place for information, not for the wings of imagination, not for
That's what books is inside people's heads.
You'd never get to know places.
I asked you to go to the children's library and see what they have.
You can watch on the computers what kind of children's books there are, and notice how many children are in the stacks and how many children
And notice how much attention the librarians are paying.
Now, I have not gone back from my survey since I went to Youngstown, and that was, let's see, when did I go to Cambridge?
And I think it was early May, because I missed that Library Commission meeting.
But imagine when I went to, I'm skipping slightly, to one of my first Library Commission meetings,
And I hear for the first time the necessity to trash the old Maine.
If you read your clippings, there are a few quotes here and there.
Well, Coulter found it necessary to have dug up from somebody an account back in, I think it was early 1970s, Rainy Day.
And this person, the last name of the person was Mandel, wrote into the papers to object.
Because the second he came into the newspaper room, there was this awful smell of all of these unwashed, which they probably were.
There were still homeless around.
And they did come into the library on rainy days, and they probably did smell.
But he didn't watch what they were doing.
They were reading newspapers.
They were upstairs, some of them.
They were reading books.
So what's a public library for?
I started to say something about where the real censorship is and where I'd like to have attention, and I got digressed, which is easy for me to do because all kinds of things— I love the digressions.
You notice I haven't interrupted you.
Well, all kinds of things get into my head.
The basic censorship is, first of all, that the public schools are so bad, and it's like in the Anandio, where I have a section where the kids do not want to be taken by Anna to the library, where, or was it not through school that they had been taught that they were dumb, dumb, dumb.
It was in one of the worst public schools, and the first grade, I think she did a wonderful job.
I had some of those teachers who, as far as the other kids were concerned, I never had that attitude, because they were great in sports, and they all were taller than me, and they loved me because I, like I loved, I looked up to them, and they looked up to me.
because I would sometimes help them and try to teach them.
I'd take a book, you know, the book, and never mind why that particular part of it.
But the censorship, basic censorship, starts there.
Now, what should a library be?
Is this a library?
If you're talking about the new Maine alone, I would say in the function it has taken on, just speaking of these kids,
This library should have spent some of all the money that was spent.
It should spend it to bookmobiles.
What's wrong with bookmobiles?
They're wonderful things.
Well, they do have bookmobiles, but they're primarily for senior centers, which, I mean, you know, of course it's fine.
Listen, we need just as much access as possible.
Coulter's was accessible.
something discover.
Oh, I saw it.
That's actually because he's using it as a verb when it's a noun.
Yes.
Well, and so what?
I mean, that to me is perfectly fine.
Language has always had more flexible uses, you know, through the years and has been added to and what's legitimate and so forth and so on.
But there is such a job.
If only they would enable
There was a letter that I, where did I put it?
It was right on top here that was in the paper just a few weeks ago.
I'll have to mail it to you.
A letter to the editor where she pointed out the joy
of the school library that she had.
I'll leave a couple of my cards in case you lose the envelope.
Well, the joy and, well, I'd put one there and the other here, because this is where I stick stuff to put away.
And so she writes this letter about the joy that she had and all she learned from her school library.
Now, we did not have a school library in my eighth grade school.
We were in a section that did not.
Already, if you were in a certain neighborhood,
And I think because it was Omaha that came in later, because New York had wonderful libraries in all of the neighborhoods.
It's marvelous, you know.
My in-laws grew up in New York, and they were the children of immigrants, and they said they had wonderful libraries.
I know, and with the white librarians, too, you know.
I love librarians.
Oh, I do, too.
I put them in the category of nurses.
Well, with certain teachers, too, with the best teachers.
I mean, those are the really sacred people in our... They're givers.
They really are.
Right, right, right.
In our world, and one of the joys to me of beginning to be active, though it was the same time I also got involved, because it was very close to me to a case of police brutality, and I noticed when I was digging out clippings, I had some of those clippings mixed up with the library clippings,
But to get back to the whole subject of illiteracy, and by the way, the library does have, it didn't come, it started in the old Maine, and they still have this group that teaches literacy classes through the, you know.
That was also something that began with the Friends of the Public Library, I believe.
But I met some of those wonderful, wonderful people.
And, you know, but this is all their own volunteer.
They're not connected with the library, but they use the library.
I understand there's one man who keeps getting up at every library commission meeting.
And all he asks is, will you please keep the library open a little longer?
Yes.
All he wants is normal hours.
instead of closing it so you could have parties there and receptions.
Well, they really don't have that many.
There's a list that, and you probably got one of those lists of, you know, who used the library and when and so forth and so on.
But the library is large enough for both.
But it has to do, to me, with a certain elite attitude.
We don't know who comes in, and it might disturb, you know, what else is going on, and it doesn't need to be that way.
To start, go back to all the wonderful feeling about the library.
It's curious to me that none of the people, the groups, who were so pleased, and one of them, a group of them got together and wrote a very angry letter about our group.
You know, none of them have ever come to commission meetings, but it was the gay and lesbian group around the world.
And yet we have, well, again, how do you know?
Well, we have lesbians and gay, you know, who come to commission meetings from time to time to time.
It's amazing to me that people who are trying to fight for a library would be the subject of it.
But, you know, there has not been any kind of
again, quote, outreach to get some of those community people to come to the library and be involved in the library and even use the library if you go to the different group names.
Now, the Gay and Lesbian Center is somewhat used, and most certainly the Afro-American Center is somewhat used.
But it's used pretty much by...
not so much by those who are readers.
What kind of scholarly collections are there?
Well, which is fine.
Well, it's a mixed collection, but there are things, and again, I could be critical.
We should go back to what happened to me.
So anyhow, there I am, and I'm speaking to Spencer Michaels, and I mentioned that there are far less books, well, especially
Well, in the literature, biography, autobiography, poetry, and he looks at me and says, oh no, and he rattles off to me how there's so much more shelf space than the old library had.
These were the official figures that were given out.
And if you read your clippings, this is what all along until recently, you know, when Kathy Page, poor Kathy Page, by the way, I have a lot of respect for her, but she was the front person
who had to lie.
In effect, they were already knowing, you know, and they already knew they didn't have room for books, you know, from the beginning.
The pages were the ones who first, they issued something.
It was such a wonderful piece that the pages did, telling what the situation was in Brooks Hall, their own situation, having to go down
and get books that they knew weren't there, you know, but presumably were supposed to be there.
Well, or maybe was in, you know, mass where nobody had to put them up in shelves, some of them were getting milled.
Well, you know the whole story of the books.
Well, but to get back to me, so everything I have to say about the library, you know, and then he wants me to contrast
how terrible the old Maine was and how wonderful the new Maine was.
This was on a TV program.
For this TV program.
Well, I tell him how wonderful it was for my kids and for me.
Well, anyhow... That's not what he wanted to hear.
And I didn't... He was very polite, but he kept asking me questions.
How were the librarians?
So, of course, me and my peons to librarians, you know.
Well, the half hour came out.
I am on the cutting room floor.
I am not included in that.
I was cut.
Now, he never called me.
He had his assistant call me.
She was very, very apologetic.
She was stumbling around poor lamb, and she said to me,
It just is that we didn't have enough room.
What's his name?
I'll call him.
Spencer Michaels.
You ask him about that.
Ask him how it is.
Spencer, is he a local fellow?
Oh, yes.
Well, he often comments.
I've never seen him since.
But when I see him, I'm going to ask him.
Well, I'll say, you know, I understand.
But I asked Holder, and he didn't, to apologize.
Mm-hmm.
to apologize.
So I'll ask him.
And I told him about going up to the history room, and I told him about going about the labor books.
And I was, you know, I couched these things very nicely, even in the question of, well, I said, you know, why the labor collection is really very, very thin, and this is
outstanding as a labor town.
And I said, we have remarkable labor.
So when you started, when you began to learn about... So, yes, so I began to learn.
That books were being dumped, though.
Oh, well, I didn't know that yet.
I didn't know that yet.
I want to find, get your reaction.
Well, although we knew after the earthquake that a lot of books had been just dumped.
They used that as an excuse.
Well, this was Dowland's attitude about books.
It was under Dowland's regime.
I'm seeing him, by the way, on Thursday night.
Well, it should be very interesting, and you should read the talk that he gave.
He only gave one talk.
And the talk, do you know what the talk was about?
No.
Well, the first few minutes was a tribute to books and librarians.
Then it was the wonders of computers.
He envisioned the library of the future.
We would be able to get the Berlin Library online.
We would be able to get Topio Library online.
Everything was going to be accessible to us.
Well, how many people who come to the library know foreign languages and need that?
It's a comparatively small group, and they should be served, too.
Very, very, very, very much they should be served.
We have college.
We have university libraries.
Well, but this is a public library, a public library in a city where the public schools, most of them, although we have the Rosa Parks School.
You can see it from here just a block and a half away.
You can see the Raphael Wheel School.
And they are going to have a library because it's the Rosa Parks School.
But anyhow...
This is a library in a city that has many, many immigrants as well as those who are not readers because they don't come from book homes.
And it needs a consciousness that these are the people especially who have a need for libraries being brought into libraries and having the library come to them.
I've several times gotten up at commission meetings where there's been the appropriate occasion to talk about this.
This was the time when there was money, before the big deficit.
Now, anyhow, it was at the time when I was there for the videotaping of Spencer Michaels' piece that Kathy Bremer came up to me, and she said...
Because she knew I was a book lover, you know, and so forth and so on.
And silence has a few librarians.
It's partly acknowledged, too, among other things.
And she said that she wanted to invite me to a meeting.
It's going to be mostly librarians, but also some others.
And they'd like to hear what my response, you know, how I feel about the library.
And that's when I began to become part of this marvelous group.
They are such wonderful beings, let me tell you.
And some of them really put themselves on the line.
I was this morning with Walter.
Yes.
I can't believe the work that he's done.
I know.
But he's sending me boxes of stuff by UPS.
I'm sure.
I can't carry it home with this.
Well, I'm sure.
Well, anyhow, but to get back to Dallin.
Well, Dallin gives only one talk.
And this talk is about, this is what his talk is about.
It was supposed to have had a question and answer period.
There is no question or answer period.
He went over the time.
That was his one public appearance.
Well, what would you like to ask him?
He presented, well...
He presented at the meeting where he was, this was before the deficit was, but he was already on the hot seat.
He presented, and I didn't have a chance to take a look at it.
It's somewhere in one of the files here.
He gave everybody this particular thing, which included his vision as to what libraries should be in his libraries of the future.
Well, it was very interesting that he gave lip service in that, at least, to librarians.
Then comes this meeting also when the deficit has been discovered, though we still don't know, as I said, in spite of the audits, who got what money on the staff.
The librarians certainly did not get any big raises.
any raises at all, I think, except there was a slight raise.
You'd have to ask Kathy Bremer.
Well, I have the material on that.
Well, what is his proposal?
It was the one that came in from the beginning, where the pages first spoke up.
The new Maine opened all that money with many less pages than the old Maine had.
They cut back on the pages.
Now there is, you should have it.
If not, I'll send you my complete file.
They issued something to the public saying how much they'd been cut and what it meant for the reshelving of books on the library.
See, I didn't as yet realize that part of the reason things were so difficult
there were such spaces on certain aspects of the shelves.
Not the technological library, not the business library.
That was full.
That was full, which I also noticed when I walked through the library with a more critical eye, having seen certain things.
Well, so the pages published the first thing.
And the fact of the staff being published.
I thought, my God, how can anybody be so short-sighted?
So that's why when I ask for books and they're on the computer, I don't get the books.
I didn't yet know about the destruction of books since.
Well, I met Dietrich at one of these meetings.
Isn't she...
I mean, what a heroine.
We met last night at the Grey Panther's office, and she had her buttons on and the posters on.
What a heroine she is.
She is really a heroine.
I don't know if she was too modest to give you some of the publicity about her.
And by the way, she is one of the most hated people by Coulter.
Well, anyhow, so if you see what Dowland's vision of the library of the future is and his practice, which you do is cut staff, you don't need staff, I really came to feel that that guy does not know.
And I don't think Coulter realizes.
Somebody has to be there to order the book.
after it's decided you want to get new books.
Somebody has to be there to open the cartons when they arrive.
Somebody has to be there to shell those books where they belong as well as put them in a catalog.
Somebody also has to catalog them, too.
Yes, of course.
But you see, when I first began to come to the commission meetings,
And I still feel that to this day, and I've said it.
And I love Nicholson Baker, and he performed such a service for the library and for libraries general.
But his focus on the card catalog, which I felt so strongly, I said from the beginning, they can do what the New York Public Library did.
You know, there's that whole wall in the reading room.
And somebody who's intimidated yet by a computer, which is most people who use the public libraries here and who are the ones we want most to attract, so they can use at the public library.
They can look, and it's exactly like what's on the computer.
It's the old card catalog, but it's in books, you know, A to...
A to AB, maybe.
That's the first book.
You take it out, and there's the things pasted in.
What a simple, beautiful, practical solution.
And meanwhile, to have enough library staff, they can want to know if you need some help to find something.
And they can, at a time, because sometimes people are the same readers, and they recognize them, show them.
how to really use a computer.
The computers are not user-friendly, which I recognized with my first time.
I thought, my God, I'd rather go to the shelves and just browse.
This is no use to me.
But there were no card catalogs where I could have found things.
It's like browsing.
You browse in a card catalog.
You don't browse on a computer.
No, sir, no.
Browsing is essential for those.
Oh, I think so.
Think of all the things we discovered through browsing.
For me, for all my research at Widener at Harvard, the book that's always the most important book is not the one I went in to find.
It's the one that was next to it, or over here.
All of a sudden, my attention is something, and it's a book I've never heard of before, but it turns out to be marvelous.
Well, that's browsing.
That's serendipity.
This takes almost over, too.
Tell me when you start to get tired, by the way.
What?
What is it in here?
Here's a piece that somebody wrote about my reading list, by the way, that you might want to have.
that's in this ... and it has a lot about ... Well, you see, Robin Desard was a professor's wife.
Now, of course, she's a professor, which was beginning to happen at the time that I was at Amherst.
You may know this name because she's a Mark Twain scholar and is editing the complete edition of everything that Mark Twain ever published in the original, with reproductions of the original, you know, thing that so often had the photographs and so forth and so on.
But...
Anyway, no, this is very mixed.
That's Oxford.
Oxford, yeah.
1994.
Well, that's not just about me, this book.
Well, it has, you know, some pieces.
Then it has, you know, some other things that are all around, silences, which... Oh, me.
I have access to wonderful libraries, by the way.
All I need is titles, and I can find them.
So, are you getting tired, by the way?
Let me know.
Are you getting tired?
No, I don't get tired, though.
I'm going to stand for a while.
Okay, because we've got... I'm not much for sitting...
too long, and so anyhow, my excitement, and then I began to learn what was happening behind the scenes, and then I discovered, to my great shock, that I could write a letter to the editor and they didn't publish it.
Amazing, huh?
Well, I didn't write too many letters, but I tried three different times, that there were editorials and these op-ed pieces
about us about the group we were called luddites you still are he called you he's he called you luddites yesterday as a matter of fact i see well you see luddites uh i wonder if he knows what a luddite is well i don't even i i don't think he really does he probably picked it up and maybe even and maybe somebody even told him uh uh but um
And of course, Luddites had a reason they were losing their livelihoods.
And in a sense, maybe it's true because we were losing our books, but we didn't go around destroying things.